MAKER-INPUT-production-metadata.md, before:

---
title: Specification for Production Metadata
subtitle: Input from WP4/WP5 Partners
...

# Intro & Scope

With this document we aim to pin down the metadata that **makers** need to assess whether or not they can (or want) to produce a certain piece of Open Source Hardware with the tools available (e.g. in their makerspace).\
More specifically _you_ will write this document.
But don't worry, you're not alone.
We contacted numerous people that are willing to share their expertise here. 

**What we need from you now:** Imagine you have been searching for an open source solution on LOSH to solve a specific problem, and found it! (yeah)\
Now, only focussing on the aspect of manufacturing it:

- Let us know **your production category of interest** (e.g. 3D-printed) by opening a new section [below](#content)
- …and the **corresponding data fields (metadata)** that you'd need to assess whether or not it makes sense for you to produce the corresponding part/module yourself or order it somewhere else (e.g. material, size)

Following DIN SPEC 3105-1 we believe that parts of the metadata should apply technology-specific.

**NOTE:** Metadata are not meant to replace the documentation. It should rather provide you with enough data so that you know whether or not it makes sense to take a deeper look into the documentation.

--

**Please consider:** This is a dynamic document.\
The contributor after you will make changes.
So to ensure a consistent chain of contributions, please make sure that your input can be understood by someone who also has a maker-background, but has never spoken to you and hence doesn't know what's in your mind besides the details noted down.
Please be as specific as possible; if you're unsure about certain input/feedback you want to give, just mark it accordingly, so others will know.

After all willing makers gave their input, I'll tidy up this document and send it back to you (and everyone else), so you can take notice of it's final version.
If there's anything we forgot, got wrong or any other thoughts you want to share when reading the final version → don't hesitate and let us know in a reply on the mail containing this final version.
Everything will be documented, nothing will be forgotten.
Every peace of feedback is valuable and will be read :)

# Content

## [sample] some-technology-category

- data field 1 (e.g. size)
  - (optional) a comment on data 1 (e.g. rationale behind it or whether multiple entries should be possible)
  - (optional) suggested reasonable
- data field 2
  - if you feel that data field is irrelevant/redundant, let people know via such a comment

Commit message:

add note on request for deletion

MAKER-INPUT-production-metadata.md, after:

---
title: Specification for Production Metadata
subtitle: Input from WP4/WP5 Partners
...

# Intro & Scope

With this document we aim to pin down the metadata that **makers** need to assess whether or not they can (or want) to produce a certain piece of Open Source Hardware with the tools available (e.g. in their makerspace).\
More specifically _you_ will write this document.
But don't worry, you're not alone.
We contacted numerous people that are willing to share their expertise here. 

**What we need from you now:** Imagine you have been searching for an open source solution on LOSH to solve a specific problem, and found it! (yeah)\
Now, only focussing on the aspect of manufacturing it:

- Let us know **your production category of interest** (e.g. 3D-printed) by opening a new section [below](#content)
- …and the **corresponding data fields (metadata)** that you'd need to assess whether or not it makes sense for you to produce the corresponding part/module yourself or order it somewhere else (e.g. material, size)

Following DIN SPEC 3105-1 we believe that parts of the metadata should apply technology-specific.

**NOTE:** Metadata are not meant to replace the documentation. It should rather provide you with enough data so that you know whether or not it makes sense to take a deeper look into the documentation.

--

**Please consider:** This is a dynamic document.\
The contributor after you will make changes.
So to ensure a consistent chain of contributions, please make sure that your input can be understood by someone who also has a maker-background, but has never spoken to you and hence doesn't know what's in your mind besides the details noted down.
Please be as specific as possible; if you're unsure about certain input/feedback you want to give, just mark it accordingly, so others will know.

If you find data fields or maybe even production categories that don't make sense in the maker context from your perspective, please make a corresponding note there – I'll process this accordingly.

After all willing makers gave their input, I'll tidy up this document and send it back to you (and everyone else), so you can take notice of it's final version.
If there's anything we forgot, got wrong or any other thoughts you want to share when reading the final version → don't hesitate and let us know in a reply on the mail containing this final version.
Everything will be documented, nothing will be forgotten.
Every peace of feedback is valuable and will be read :)

# Content

## [sample] some-technology-category

- data field 1 (e.g. size)
  - (optional) a comment on data 1 (e.g. rationale behind it or whether multiple entries should be possible)
  - (optional) suggested reasonable
- data field 2
  - if you feel that data field is irrelevant/redundant, let people know via such a comment
