MEETME.md, before:

# Squashed Meeting Minutes

…of the OSHI working group

## xx-06-2020 – first metadata draft

**Invitees:**

- Julieta
- Emilio
- Robin
- Erik
- Moe (minutes)

**Notes:**

- which data format? ([issue 4](https://github.com/OPEN-NEXT/OSHI/issues/4))
- file name & location convention ([issue 5](https://github.com/OPEN-NEXT/OSHI/issues/5))
- Where exactly is new, own vocabulary ontology necessary and where can I just use workarounds & templates for data input?
- ~~How does referencing to other DBs work? as e.g. for function categories defined in Wikidata?~~
  - answered by Wikimedia in a previous meeting
  - we'll squash all the data into one Wikibase instance; this makes life a lot easier; maintenance of different ontology modules or subdatasets is still possible
  - anyway, wikibase offers special features to query other wikibase instances, even to combine different instances into one query; forgot the specific term; the wikimedia community can provide details :)
- Can we trace different versions of OSH with the given metadata? (e.g. crawling URL indicates whether or not OSH is a variant or different version of already existing OSH)
- In a query, can we get the file format from a file link?
- Looking onto the [scope](Wikibase_Qs.md) and the first [draft](OSH_metadata.md)… does this all make sense? ([issue 2](https://github.com/OPEN-NEXT/OSHI/issues/2))
- cooperation Wikimedia Deutschland
  - create initial test data set

## 30-04-2020 – little kickoff

**Attendees:**

- Julieta
- Robin
- Erik
- Moe (minutes)

forgot to invite: Emilio (sorry, Emilio)

**Notes:**

- first draft for DB structure
  - various specified DBs with own onthologies, compatible with each other so that queries across different DBs can be performed
  - DB for OSH-Modules (target for v1.0 of this wikibase instance)
    - = OSH assemblies
    - which consist of
      - other OSH-Modules
      - OSH Components
      - standard parts
      - proprietary parts
  - DB for standard parts (optional target for v1.0)
  - ideas for further DBs:
    - manufacturers (to enable decentralised production of OSH as manufacturer metadata can be mapped over OSH metadata (tolerances, dimensions, material etc.))
    - funding programes (matchmaking between funders and cool projects)
    - scientific publications (e.g. in  cooperation with Journal of Open Hardware)
    - connection to Wikidata (to connect technical documentation with _real_ data :) )
- standards are the backbone of this structure
  - technical documentation: DIN SPEC 3105 & [TsDC](https://gitlab.com/OSEGermany/oh-tsdc/)
  - metadata: Open Know-How manifest v1.0 (+v2.0 (or hard fork) see below ↓)
    - first draft for metadata (and its structure) of OSH [here](OSH%20metadata.md)
    - will be pitched to Open Know-How working group
- we will make use of
  - guidelines & standard modules for onthologies (thanks @Julieta! 🎉)
  - [wbstack.com](wbstack.com) in order to test our onthology approaches

**ToDo:**

- @Moe sends a short project description and mail addresses of the working group to @Julieta, so…
- @Julieta creates an instance using [wbstack.com](wbstack.com)) where we all create accounts, and…
- @Julieta connects us/@Moe to a group of smart people who designed guidelines & standard modules for onthologies (Cristina Sarasua, ETH Zurich)
- @Moe invites everyone to GitHub repo

Commit message:

upload minutes, update naming convention

MEETME.md, after:

# Squashed Meeting Minutes

…of the OSHI working group

## xx-07-2020 – first metadata draft

**Invitees:**

- Julieta
- Emilio
- Erik
- Sonika
- Robin
- Moe (minutes)

**Agenda:**

- decision about file formats ([issue 4](https://github.com/OPEN-NEXT/OSHI/issues/4))
- decision about file name & location convention ([issue 5](https://github.com/OPEN-NEXT/OSHI/issues/5))
- Looking onto the [scope](Wikibase_Qs.md) and the first [draft](OSH_metadata.md)… does this all make sense? ([issue 2](https://github.com/OPEN-NEXT/OSHI/issues/2))

## 25-06-2020 – first metadata draft

**Attendees:**

- Robin
- Moe (minutes)

**Notes:**

- ~~Where exactly is new, own vocabulary ontology necessary and where can I just use workarounds & templates for data input?~~
  - → will be checked by Moe in the cooperation with Wikimedia Deutschland
- ~~How does referencing to other DBs work? as e.g. for function categories defined in Wikidata?~~
  - → answered by Wikimedia in a previous meeting
  - we'll squash all the data into one Wikibase instance; this makes life a lot easier; maintenance of different ontology modules or subdatasets is still possible
  - anyway, wikibase offers special features to query other wikibase instances, even to combine different instances into one query; forgot the specific term; the wikimedia community can provide details :)
- Can we trace different versions of OSH with the given metadata? (e.g. crawling URL indicates whether or not OSH is a variant or different version of already existing OSH)
  - ✓ yes, yey
- In a query, can we get the file format from a file link?
  - ✓ yes, yey
- Looking onto the [scope](Wikibase_Qs.md) and the first [draft](OSH_metadata.md)… does this all make sense? ([issue 2](https://github.com/OPEN-NEXT/OSHI/issues/2))
- ✓ yes, yey
- cooperation with Wikimedia Deutschland
  - create initial test data set
    - 50…150 items (instances) by the end of CW 27

## 30-04-2020 – little kickoff

**Attendees:**

- Julieta
- Robin
- Erik
- Moe (minutes)

forgot to invite: Emilio (sorry, Emilio)

**Notes:**

- first draft for DB structure
  - various specified DBs with own onthologies, compatible with each other so that queries across different DBs can be performed
  - DB for OSH-Modules (target for v1.0 of this wikibase instance)
    - = OSH assemblies
    - which consist of
      - other OSH-Modules
      - OSH Components
      - standard parts
      - proprietary parts
  - DB for standard parts (optional target for v1.0)
  - ideas for further DBs:
    - manufacturers (to enable decentralised production of OSH as manufacturer metadata can be mapped over OSH metadata (tolerances, dimensions, material etc.))
    - funding programes (matchmaking between funders and cool projects)
    - scientific publications (e.g. in  cooperation with Journal of Open Hardware)
    - connection to Wikidata (to connect technical documentation with _real_ data :) )
- standards are the backbone of this structure
  - technical documentation: DIN SPEC 3105 & [TsDC](https://gitlab.com/OSEGermany/oh-tsdc/)
  - metadata: Open Know-How manifest v1.0 (+v2.0 (or hard fork) see below ↓)
    - first draft for metadata (and its structure) of OSH [here](OSH%20metadata.md)
    - will be pitched to Open Know-How working group
- we will make use of
  - guidelines & standard modules for onthologies (thanks @Julieta! 🎉)
  - [wbstack.com](wbstack.com) in order to test our onthology approaches

**ToDo:**

- @Moe sends a short project description and mail addresses of the working group to @Julieta, so…
- @Julieta creates an instance using [wbstack.com](wbstack.com)) where we all create accounts, and…
- @Julieta connects us/@Moe to a group of smart people who designed guidelines & standard modules for onthologies (Cristina Sarasua, ETH Zurich)
- @Moe invites everyone to GitHub repo
