sample_data/project-list.md, before:

# Selection of OSH Modules

## Intro

This is an (yet) unsorted list of OSH Modules whose metadata will serve as a testing sample for the OSHI. We'll contact the projects and ask them to help us creating their metadata in compliance with our standard.

We are aiming for ~20 OSH Modules:

- a lot of simple examples in order to save us time and avoid confusion due to complexity overkill
- 2…5 complex modules so we can assess the required performance of the system needed for complex projects
- some of these modules are preferably linked to each other (I doubt that this will be the case for most projects as design reuse is still a significant issue, but maybe we can find some 'product families' where design reuse happens for different variants of the same module)

The following list will be clustered by topics or function categories people may look for. That way we may also get a feeling for requirements for the functional categorization and whether Wikidata is feasible to solve this question. Those categories are not meant to reflect the whole spectrum of OSH or even its most important categories. However, we can keep that in mind, so feel free to add categories :)

## The list

sources:

- <https://github.com/PubInv/covid19-vent-list#evaluation-of-known-projects>
- several direct contacts
- [OHO targets](https://cloud.opensourceecology.de/s/nry4fWE2yCa2D9d)

Wikimedia sample data:

- [MPPT 1210 HUS](https://github.com/LibreSolar/MPPT-1210-HUS)
- [Corne keyboard](https://github.com/foostan/crkbd)
- [COSI Measure Mechanical System](https://github.com/opensourceimaging/cosi-measure/tree/master/Mechanical%20System)

### COVID-19-related

#### Ventilators

- [AmboVent](https://github.com/AmboVent-1690-108/AmboVent)
- [ApolloBVM](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-DRXnVkJOlDCmvTzh-DgWDxeLSrZTiBYyH0ypzv8tNA/edit)
- [DIY-Beatmungsgerät](https://github.com/DIY-Beatmungsgerat/diy-beatmungsgeraet)
  - refers to [OpenLung](https://gitlab.com/open-source-ventilator/ventilator/OpenLung)
- [Low-Cost Open Source Ventilator or PAPR](https://github.com/jcl5m1/ventilator)
- [OxyGEN](https://github.com/ProtofyTeam/OxyGEN)
- [VentilAid](https://gitlab.com/Urbicum/ventilaid/)

### production tools

- RepRap Family
  - [Hangprinter](https://github.com/tobbelobb/hangprinter)
    - 5 major releases
  - [Prusa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prusa_i3#History)
    - 7 major releases
  - [RepRap Fisher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RepRap_Fisher)
  - [RepRap Snappy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RepRap_Snappy)
  - [RepRap Morgan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RepRap_Morgan)
    - 4 major releases
  - [RepRap Ormerod](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RepRap_Ormerod)
    - 2 major releases

### lab equipment

- [OpenFlexure](https://gitlab.com/openflexure)

### energy

### IoT stuff

Commit message:

add 3d printers, remove unused categories

sample_data/project-list.md, after:

# Selection of OSH Modules

## Intro

This is an (yet) unsorted list of OSH Modules whose metadata will serve as a testing sample for the OSHI. We'll contact the projects and ask them to help us creating their metadata in compliance with our standard.

We are aiming for ~20 OSH Modules:

- a lot of simple examples in order to save us time and avoid confusion due to complexity overkill
- 2…5 complex modules so we can assess the required performance of the system needed for complex projects
- some of these modules are preferably linked to each other (I doubt that this will be the case for most projects as design reuse is still a significant issue, but maybe we can find some 'product families' where design reuse happens for different variants of the same module)

The following list will be clustered by topics or function categories people may look for. That way we may also get a feeling for requirements for the functional categorization and whether Wikidata is feasible to solve this question. Those categories are not meant to reflect the whole spectrum of OSH or even its most important categories. However, we can keep that in mind, so feel free to add categories :)

## The list

sources:

- <https://github.com/PubInv/covid19-vent-list#evaluation-of-known-projects>
- several direct contacts
- [OHO targets](https://cloud.opensourceecology.de/s/nry4fWE2yCa2D9d)

Wikimedia sample data:

- [MPPT 1210 HUS](https://github.com/LibreSolar/MPPT-1210-HUS)
- [Corne keyboard](https://github.com/foostan/crkbd)
- [COSI Measure Mechanical System](https://github.com/opensourceimaging/cosi-measure/tree/master/Mechanical%20System)

### COVID-19-related

#### Ventilators

- [AmboVent](https://github.com/AmboVent-1690-108/AmboVent)
- [ApolloBVM](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-DRXnVkJOlDCmvTzh-DgWDxeLSrZTiBYyH0ypzv8tNA/edit)
- [DIY-Beatmungsgerät](https://github.com/DIY-Beatmungsgerat/diy-beatmungsgeraet)
  - refers to [OpenLung](https://gitlab.com/open-source-ventilator/ventilator/OpenLung)
- [Low-Cost Open Source Ventilator or PAPR](https://github.com/jcl5m1/ventilator)
- [OxyGEN](https://github.com/ProtofyTeam/OxyGEN)
- [VentilAid](https://gitlab.com/Urbicum/ventilaid/)

### production tools

- RepRap Family
  - [Hangprinter](https://github.com/tobbelobb/hangprinter)
    - 5 major releases
  - [Prusa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prusa_i3#History)
    - 7 major releases
  - [RepRap Fisher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RepRap_Fisher)
  - [RepRap Snappy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RepRap_Snappy)
  - [RepRap Morgan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RepRap_Morgan)
    - 4 major releases
  - [RepRap Ormerod](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RepRap_Ormerod)
    - 2 major releases
  - [Mendel90](https://github.com/nophead/Mendel90)
- [NopSCADlib](https://github.com/nophead/NopSCADlib)\
  an OpenSCAD library of parts for 3D printers and enclosures for electronics, etc.

### lab equipment

- [OpenFlexure](https://gitlab.com/openflexure)
